README.md, before:

# RACE GAME 2

## Overview
The Player is a racing Driver, their Career spans several Seasons of Race Events.

Over Season.Events.length, a player must gather the most Championship Points (CP) in order to win the Championship.
During a race weekend, Racing Experience (XP), Championship Points (CP) and money ($), may be earned. 

>.note Potentially, a combination of these could resolve to an overall Reputation Points (RP) score, but maybe that's making things a bit too complex for now. 

## TODOs

- [ ] Write Design Doc of sorts
- [ ] Create (phased/sprint-based) TODO.md

## SOLO GOAL: become champion over a Career
- [ ] a Career may span multiple Championship Seasons
- [ ] a Season is a Map() of Events.
- [ ] Players can compete in (unlocked) Events.
- [ ] Events unlock in the player's first Season, after completing a race in either a previous or their first (ever) Event.
- [ ] Events consist of multiple Sessions (training, qualifying, race [,race 2?])
- [ ] During a Session, $, XP and CP can be won by completing various driving objectives (distance traveled, % of clean laps, best lap time, qualifying position, race overtakes, race result etc.)
- [ ] During a Session, penalties in various degrees may be received (off track, colliding, speeding in pitlane etc.)

- [ ] Before and after Event Sessions, the player must complete varying Tasks in 'RPG mode' in order to continue to the next Session in the Event.
  - [ ] Tasks may be completed in various ways (check in, collect, purchase etc..) and may or may not be time limited.
  - [ ] Completing (some of) these tasks may increase XP or $, depending on their objective. /* This needs to be more specced out */

- [ ] After completing a session, the player spawns in their Motorhome/Garagebox (ie, their paddock spawn point)
- [ ] After completing an Event, the player returns to their team HomeBase
  - [ ] At both the HomeBase and Motorhome/Garagebox, some management tasks can be completed and unlocked perks/customizations can be purchased/applied.
  - [ ] 
  - [ ] Eventually, investigate the option to utilize `<canvas>` to allow players to design their own liveries

- [CP] are added to a Player's Season results to compete for the Championship Title
- [XP] **unlock** available customizations/perks/upgrades.
- [$] are required to **purchase** these customizations/perks/upgrades.
- Upgrades may increase maxSpeed, maxSteering (and maxAccel?), increasing the chances of gaining [CP] and becoming champion
- Becoming Champion may unlock different Perks, such as Exclusive Vehicles, a Livery Editor and more.

## MULTIPLAYER GOAL

- [ ] Phase 1: Just a fun way to play 'bumpercars' with friends
- [ ] Phase 2/3?: Community to collect and share (show off) either earned/rare or self-made customization(s)?
- [ ] Global leaderboards with laptimes per Venue?
- [ ] Bluesky login?

# RACE WEEKEND (Event) STRUCTURE

- [ ] 1. Spawn as character outside Motorhome/Truck in Paddock [RPG mode]

  - [ ] Task: check in and attend driver meeting at Race Control
  - [ ] Task: gather/purchase supplies (tires, fuel)
  - [ ] Task: (optional) purchase/equip upgrades
  - [ ] Task: Park racecar in pitlane service area box to start Practice (Session 1)

- [ ] 3. A: Free practice (Session 1)
  - [ ] (optional) car setup in service area
  - [ ] Start practice clock, 10 mins to drive laps
  - [ ] Earn XP for completed laps
  - [ ] Earn XP for clean lap
  - [ ] Earn XP for best lap time
  - [ ] Task: Complete practice programme (set N laps / adjust `car.section.settings`?)
  - [ ] Earn XP for completing Task
  - [ ] Return to garage (trailer?) to end Practice Session 1

- [ ] 3. B: Post-practice / prep Qualifying (Session 2) [RPG mode]

- [ ] 4. A: Qualifying (Session 2)
  - [ ] Earn XP for completed lap
  - [ ] Earn XP for best lap time
  - [ ] Earn XP for clean lap 
  - [ ] Task: Complete qualifying programme (stay close to racing line, TODO: add `#racingline` (not `#racetrack`!)`<path>` element with smaller width to track map files)
  - [ ] Earn XP for high racing line percentage (@see TODO)
  - [ ] Return to garage (trailer?) to end Qualifying (Session 2)
  - [ ] Challenge: Drivers may randomly be called into the weigh bridge.
  - [ ] Earn XP for completing the Challenge, receive a penalty for missing.

- [ ] 4. B: Post-qualifying [RPG mode]
  - [ ] Challenge. Visit scrutineering after qualifying time ends -> skipping may result in random penalty awarded after race

- [ ] 5. Race
  - [ ] Spawn in garage, drive to starting grid slot (simpler: spawn at grid slot)
  - [ ] Drive ~5 laps after starting signal
  - [ ] Earn CP, $ for finising position
  - [ ] Earn XP for # of completed laps

Commit message:

Update readme, add session greeter system (wip, v0.1), fix netcode bugs, add EffectsManager + 1st vfx, fix gamepad rumble

README.md, after:

# RACE GAME 2

## Overview
The Player is a racing Driver, their Career spans several Seasons of Race Events.

Over Season.Events.length, a player must gather the most Championship Points (CP) in order to win the Championship.
During a race weekend, Racing Experience (XP), Championship Points (CP) and money ($), may be earned. 

>.note Potentially, a combination of these could resolve to an overall Reputation Points (RP) score, but maybe that's making things a bit too complex for now. 

## TECH DEV GOALS
To develop (a system to develop) engaging html5 games without needing to go webGL or Canvas. Those systems are fantastic but are somewhat cumbersome to start game development with. This project aims to stick as much as possible to clean & lean `html`, `css`, `svg` (ok and some `js`) for the delivery of audio-, visual and haptic feedback. 

Note that _lean_ does not equal **plain**. 
We can combine clipping, masking, blending and svg filtering to achieve a very rich user experience.

## TODOs
- [ ] Clean up this doc
- [ ] Write Design Doc of sorts?
- [ ] Add credits.txt?
- [ ] Create project, milestones 

## SOLO GOAL: become champion over a Career
- [ ] a Career may span multiple Championship Seasons
- [ ] a Season is a Map() of Events.
- [ ] Players can compete in (unlocked) Events.
- [ ] Events unlock in the player's first Season, after completing a race in either a previous or their first (ever) Event.
- [ ] Events consist of multiple Sessions (training, qualifying, race [,race 2?])
- [ ] During a Session, $, XP and CP can be won by completing various driving objectives (distance traveled, % of clean laps, best lap time, qualifying position, race overtakes, race result etc.)
- [ ] During a Session, penalties in various degrees may be received (off track, colliding, speeding in pitlane etc.)

- [ ] Before and after Event Sessions, the player must complete varying Tasks in 'RPG mode' in order to continue to the next Session in the Event.
  - [ ] Tasks may be completed in various ways (check in, collect, purchase etc..) and may or may not be time limited.
  - [ ] Completing (some of) these tasks may increase XP or $, depending on their objective. /* This needs to be more specced out */

- [ ] After completing a session, the player spawns in their Motorhome/Garagebox (ie, their paddock spawn point)
- [ ] After completing an Event, the player returns to their team HomeBase
  - [ ] At both the HomeBase and Motorhome/Garagebox, some management tasks can be completed and unlocked perks/customizations can be purchased/applied.
  - [ ] 
  - [ ] Eventually, investigate the option to utilize `<canvas>` to allow players to design their own liveries

- [CP] are added to a Player's Season results to compete for the Championship Title
- [XP] **unlock** available customizations/perks/upgrades.
- [$] are required to **purchase** these customizations/perks/upgrades.
- Upgrades may increase maxSpeed, maxSteering (and maxAccel?), increasing the chances of gaining [CP] and becoming champion
- Becoming Champion may unlock different Perks, such as Exclusive Vehicles, a Livery Editor and more.

## MULTIPLAYER GOAL

- [ ] Phase 1: Just a fun way to play 'bumpercars' with friends
- [ ] Phase 2/3?: Community to collect and share (show off) either earned/rare or self-made customization(s)?
- [ ] Global leaderboards with laptimes per Venue?
- [ ] Bluesky login?

# RACE WEEKEND (Event) STRUCTURE

- [ ] 1. Spawn as character outside Motorhome/Truck in Paddock [RPG mode]

  - [ ] Task: check in and attend driver meeting at Race Control
  - [ ] Task: gather/purchase supplies (tires, fuel)
  - [ ] Task: (optional) purchase/equip upgrades
  - [ ] Task: Park racecar in pitlane service area box to start Practice (Session 1)

- [ ] 3. A: Free practice (Session 1)
  - [ ] (optional) car setup in service area
  - [ ] Start practice clock, 10 mins to drive laps
  - [ ] Earn XP for completed laps
  - [ ] Earn XP for clean lap
  - [ ] Earn XP for best lap time
  - [ ] Task: Complete practice programme (set N laps / adjust `car.section.settings`?)
  - [ ] Earn XP for completing Task
  - [ ] Return to garage (trailer?) to end Practice Session 1

- [ ] 3. B: Post-practice / prep Qualifying (Session 2) [RPG mode]

- [ ] 4. A: Qualifying (Session 2)
  - [ ] Earn XP for completed lap
  - [ ] Earn XP for best lap time
  - [ ] Earn XP for clean lap 
  - [ ] Task: Complete qualifying programme (stay close to racing line, TODO: add `#racingline` (not `#racetrack`!)`<path>` element with smaller width to track map files)
  - [ ] Earn XP for high racing line percentage (@see TODO)
  - [ ] Return to garage (trailer?) to end Qualifying (Session 2)
  - [ ] Challenge: Drivers may randomly be called into the weigh bridge.
  - [ ] Earn XP for completing the Challenge, receive a penalty for missing.

- [ ] 4. B: Post-qualifying [RPG mode]
  - [ ] Challenge. Visit scrutineering after qualifying time ends -> skipping may result in random penalty awarded after race

- [ ] 5. Race
  - [ ] Spawn in garage, drive to starting grid slot (simpler: spawn at grid slot)
  - [ ] Drive ~5 laps after starting signal
  - [ ] Earn CP, $ for finising position
  - [ ] Earn XP for # of completed laps
